Hey, full-time podcaster Wes Payne.
Oh, hello there, Chris.
Are you ready to do a Linux Unplugged program,
Mr. Full-Time Podcaster?
Like we've never done before.
This is Linux Unplugged, episode 266
for September 11th, 2018.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show
that's not just covering the news this week.
We're making a bit of news.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
And Joe's here too.
Yo, Joe.
Hello.
Hello, guys.
First of all, thank you for covering for me last week.
Much appreciated.
We're back.
I'm back.
It's a full team this week because we
have a lot to get into.
We have a lot of stuff to do.
We have some major announcements that I am so excited to share
with you.
I have been resurrected from the hospital bed
and transported into the studio just
to make this very announcement.
Plus, we'll be getting into some community news
later on in the show.
So before we go any further, let's
bring in that virtual lug.
Time appropriate greetings, Mumble Room.
Hey, hey.
Hey, hey, hey.
Listen to that.
That is a showing.
Wow.
And it's been a long time since I've been able to say this.
Joining us this week on the program
is the CEO of Linux Academy, Mr. Anthony James.
Hello, Anthony.
Hey, how's it going?
It's going fantastic, sir.
Thank you for being here.
We have a big show today, so I'm really glad you could be here.
Episode 266.
Now, you're down there in the Tejas.
I was just down there recently.
In fact, if things had gone as originally planned,
I would have been probably in the same room with Anthony
for this episode right now.
That was supposed to be last Tuesday.
I was instead getting carved up by doctors.
So I didn't have an opportunity.
Let me just say we're all glad you are alive and well
and you look great.
Well, thank you.
I mean, that's kind of you to say.
Well, let's start with the big news
before we get into the community news.
It's not very often we get to be the news.
We usually cover the news.
We're not often the news.
But this week, we are the news.
I'm starting off with a big announcement.
Jupiter Broadcasting is joining Linux Academy.
And let me be clear, this is a great development.
We are kumbayaing, as they say.
And the biggest change that's happening from all of this
has already happened.
Behind the scenes, the biggest change
is that our shows are going ad-free.
No more sponsors on the shows.
And that happened September 1.
I don't know if anybody noticed, but it did actually happen.
It was out there, right?
Or not out there.
And we're very excited about that,
because Linux Academy is going to be our sole sponsor.
We are part of Linux Academy now.
So we're dropping ads, and our shows are going sponsor-free.
That's the biggest change you're going to see.
But behind the scenes, there has been some big news.
Wes, Angela, Joe, and myself have become full-time.
Well, all of us, except for Joe, have become full-time employees
of Linux Academy.
Joe is spending full-time working on JB shows,
doing production and editing.
And Wes is now on board.
He's going to be in charge of our content.
And he's obviously been helping me out this last week.
As I've been out sick, we're going
to be developing new processes.
And so we have a core team now that's
been forming for the last couple of weeks behind the scenes.
And it's so exciting for all of us.
And Wes and Joe, you guys did above and beyond last week
while I was out.
And you and Ang all worked together to make sure
the shows kept going out.
And I don't think we could have done
that without this transition.
And the timing just happened to work out
such that it was in place.
So the week that I had to go, you guys were there.
And in place, you had to scramble.
You had to work hard and work lots of extra hours.
But it was the beginning of something
we could have never have done before.
And that was pretty cool.
So that's been huge for us behind the scenes.
And it's just been great, very exciting.
And it means that long term, we're
going to be able to make big investments in content,
make big plans, do things a little differently.
The flexibility we'll have now by being sponsor-free
means we can entertain new ideas and new format options
that we'd never really considered.
And what's great about this is at the core of it,
this is Linux Academy looking for their way
to give back to the Linux community.
And this is how, in one of many ways, they're going to do it.
And I could tell you the numbers.
Maybe I'll get Anthony to share them.
But the growth that Linux Academy
has seen since 2014 when they became our sponsor back in 2014
has been just explosive.
The numbers don't make sense.
They're so big.
And they've been looking for a way
as they grow to give back to Linux.
As they have been successful because of Linux
and building content around there,
there is that shared drive that we have to contribute back.
So at the core, that's what we're
trying to accomplish here.
And we're going to contribute back
in ways that Jupyter Broadcasting didn't
have the means to do before.
We'll be open sourcing our shows, our production pipeline,
and we'll be open sourcing any tools
that we create to automate our processes
or validate or ensure production.
We'll be doing that in an open way.
We'll be setting up a GitLab instance where
there'll be issues that we can track, code that you can see.
We're still discussing licensing.
It's all early days, but we're really excited about it.
And I hope that we can help make tools
that help other people create content on Linux.
And we'll be using the funds that we generate via our Patreon
to fund contributions to open source projects
and free software.
Something I want to experiment too,
we're going to do swag matching, where we'll
do match donations for swags.
We'll help people get to events, community events
that are important.
And we'll even work to sponsor other podcasts
in the community that are contributing something valuable
back to the community.
And I have a lot of experience in that area.
And so I'm going to lend my services,
and I'm going to work with these podcasts
to maybe help them grow their community a bit
and become stronger.
Just as an example, this is going
to manifest in a lot of ways.
It's early days.
But as an example of something we're already taking action on,
we've decided up early on to contribute
a portion of Joe's production time to the Ubuntu podcast
to help them with their post-production.
Because that's an example of a show that I think
is just a great show.
And we need more great shows.
The whole idea here is to get people
excited and passionate about free software and Linux.
The Linux Action Show is a showcase show.
They always showcase the best in Linux
and the best in open source.
At this show, we dive deep into the topics
that matter to the users of open source software
and free software.
We talk about the new emerging technologies,
the big trends that are coming, help you wrap your head around.
We go to the source of the people that are doing the work,
and we help them communicate to you what they are doing.
And I want more of that, because I
think that is vital to open source.
We've had entire episodes where I've gotten up in my soapbox
and talked about how the communication around free
software and open source has a dramatic effect
on the community.
And we want to take some steps to help the podcast
and the free software projects that we use, for example,
or that we get along with.
We want to help everybody grow.
Even if that's just they use the source
that we create to help produce all of this,
they use the automation tools that we
extend to do all of this.
Even if it's just that detached, that is a success for us.
And we'll be using our Patreon funding
to basically fuel all of that, because Linux Academy is taking
care of our own costs, and we don't have sponsors anymore.
So we'll take that Patreon funding,
and we'll direct it to these types of initiatives.
They'll be the funding source of our Linux community
contributions and things like swag matching.
But we're also going to expand the lineup on the network.
We're already kind of in the next phase of this right now,
and I'm very excited to announce that User Air is coming back
very soon.
We have a new lineup with Joe and Poppy and Daniel Fore
from Elementary OS, plus a fourth seat
that will be frequented by JB regulars,
folks from the community, folks from Linux Academy.
We'll have a good rotation there with a core set.
And Joe, do you want to share the details on when
people can expect that, and what sort of the cadence
is going to be?
So yeah, we're planning to do that every two weeks,
and it's going to be released on Fridays, all being well.
So the first episode, well, kind of the first rebooted episode,
I suppose, will be this Friday.
Yeah, isn't that this Friday?
Oh, I'm looking forward to it.
Error.show is the new website, error.show slash RSS,
if you want to subscribe.
The new site is up.
We're getting things in place in the back end,
and the first episode should go out this Friday.
That's great.
People have been asking for user error, and people
loved that show, and it was just,
it came down to a limitation of resources.
We just knew, we knew it was a show we needed to be doing,
but we knew we couldn't pull it off.
It's a new world now.
It's a whole new world.
And so that's why Anthony, the CEO of Linux Academy,
is joining us today, because I wanted to also have you,
everyone out there listening, have a chance to hear from him
and kind of what their motivation is and learn
a little bit more about Linux Academy
if you're not familiar.
And I think maybe, Anthony, the place to start here
is how all of this started when I came down to visit you
for Texas Linux Fest, and then we just kind of started
talking from there about ways to work together more.
Yeah, absolutely.
You know, if you don't mind, real quick, back in, what,
2014, when you first had me on the show,
and then we kind of started that sponsorship relationship
a little bit, it was just me full time
and a couple other people part time.
And we really didn't have very many users.
I think we had like 50 users at the time.
And this is a real testament to actually the Jupyter
Broadcasting community and you and everybody
and all your members and all the listeners.
It's actually because of them, they
helped us kind of grow, specifically in the early days
and even in the later days too.
But if it wasn't for the Jupyter Broadcasting community,
I don't know that we would be where we are today as a company,
you know, Linux Academy.
So honestly, it does make a lot of sense,
and we're really, really excited.
You know, it's hard to have different types
of open source projects with what we do.
We like contributing to them, but we really
want to give back, right?
We have a lot of training architects
on staff with a lot of knowledge.
We really want to give back and give back
to the community that helped grow us.
And it's funny, yeah, you came down because, well,
it was on our April live show announcement.
We were doing our 150 launches.
And you were so kind to send a, I told everybody on there,
we were using, well, we were using, it was a Mac software.
Yeah, Wirecast.
Wirecast.
Yeah.
And I got this email from you, and it was so nice.
It was, hey, if you would like us
to help you actually run Linux for your broadcasting stuff,
I'll be happy to come down and set you up.
And so we said, yeah, come on down.
Let's hang out a little bit.
And well, you flew down.
We joined up at Texas Linux Fest.
No, I took the RV down, that first one.
Oh, that's right, you did take the RV down.
That was like a, how long was that road trip down there
again?
It was like six days down, six days back.
It seems longer for some reason.
Yeah.
Yeah, it did to me, too.
I think I could do it in three, though.
I think I could do it in three.
So goals, goals.
We'll set that up as a goal.
Yeah, and then you come down, and we hang out quite a bit.
Just had a good relationship.
You come back.
You know, it felt like we were having a good time
and hanging out with community.
Come back to the show.
Help us.
You spent a week there.
Help us get set up with OBS.
On Linux, yep.
And we have you on the show, and we do kind of a co-show.
And I mean, it's that point in time
I knew we were going to be BFFs forever.
Yeah, it definitely clicked.
And it was like, well, maybe we could do this,
and maybe we could do that.
And then the conversation changed to, well, maybe
we should just consider this.
Because the thing is, is we're both content shops.
Like, what we do is make content.
And there's not very many people that
understand what goes into making content,
except for the people who make it.
And that kind of click, I think, is really rare,
where we lined up, and we're both making content
for the Linux community.
And we both understand how hard that is.
And that, I think, was the seed that kind of
grew from that whole thing.
And now, for me, it's just a tremendous opportunity,
because I'm now going to be the VP of community
at Linux Academy, which is a fantastic role that gives me
quite a bit of leverage to interact with the community
and grow the audience and grow Linux Academy's community.
And one day, bring the communities together,
even possibly, if we can find a great way to do that.
There's so many options.
And including, it means I'll be able to go to more events.
I'll be able to attend things that sometimes would have
been way outside of my reach.
And we may even see one day a version of LadyJuice
going down the road, fully wrapped up,
totally loaded as a podcast official bus one day.
Hey, yo.
So many possibilities.
I thought that we were doing that first thing.
I know.
We've got to get on that.
Yeah, it's really great, because you're actually
part of the leadership team at Linux Academy right now.
And what's so great about that is your love and passion
for the community and working with the community.
And that's what Linux and open source is all about,
is giving back to the community, be part of the community,
helping people grow, helping them stay up to date,
stay in touch, learn new things quickly, so on and so forth.
So it's just a really exciting time.
And quite frankly, to you and the entire team, too,
we're everybody, and I'm really excited to have you on.
And you guys have just done nothing
short of an amazing job with Jupyter Broadcasting.
Your listeners are amazing, too.
Well, thank you.
That's very kind.
And I'm really proud of what we've built here.
And I never really had a big end goal in mind
of being some huge podcast mega corporation.
I always wanted to do it in a way that
would be sustainable, that would allow us to make content that
is really focused on the actual bits of the show
and not focused on trying to make ad sales
and not focused on trying to be flashy and click grabby
so that way people want to throw money at us.
And I never even wanted to entertain
the idea of anything like a paywall
to try to make this sustainable, because that theme, so
opposite of what is natural to the free software community.
And this gives us an opportunity to stay focused on the content,
not worry about jumping and chasing sponsors,
while also coming up with new ways
to maybe talk to some of the people at Linux Academy that
are just really, really massive topic experts on some
of the things that we cover.
I've been so, it's just incredible.
There's so many resources, so many knowledgeable people
at Linux Academy.
Wes has had an opportunity recently
to go down and meet the Linux Academy folks.
He spent a little time in Texas.
And you really see, it's an institution.
It's an operation.
And there are people there that are really smart from Red Hat
and Rackspace and people that are deep into Azure
and people that are deep into OpenStack, and I mean deep.
And they care about it, right?
This is what they live and breathe,
and there's just so much passion.
They're contributors in some cases.
And they have been so heads down and focused
on creating content that they haven't really
had an opportunity to put their heads up for air ever
and talk about what they do or talk about what they know.
And there could be some big opportunities there
for future shows and future content.
So my head's spinning with all of the ideas.
And I'm not kidding.
I drug myself out of the hospital
to be here to talk to you guys about this.
I am so excited.
I'm a little concerned that you referred to us
as a mega corporation.
I don't know now.
No, I said an institution.
Well, I mean, what was it that we just
saw in the Dallas paper?
One of the papers in the Dallas area
came out and listed Linux Academy
as one of the things that's attracting people to the area.
I mean, they are seeing phenomenal growth.
So you're humble about it, Anthony.
But you have, I think, I'll just put it as this.
You have a way of talking about the students
and aligning people's priorities that it isn't bullshit.
Like, it really registered with me
because you do it even when no one's ever going to see it.
When no one will ever hear about it, it's behind closed doors
or it's in a private, secure chat, you still do it.
And that is how I feel about the audience.
And this is the same kind of respect
that I have for the audience that you have for the students.
And that, I think, was the thing that I said.
We have a lot of common ground there.
Oh, yeah.
People in the chat room are asking, how do I feel about it?
I'm very excited.
And I think it's going to be great for the community
because we'll be in a position where we can contribute back
in a way we never could, which is something
I've talked about for years trying to accomplish.
And for me personally, it means I have things
like medical insurance now, which probably just saved me
from total financial ruin because I've spent,
I've just gone through two visits to the ER,
one major massive surgery, a week plus recovery
in the hospital.
And I have two months of intensive recovery
at minimum ahead of me.
So I could only imagine what the cost is.
I have not yet even seen the first bill for the first ER
visit.
But I can imagine that it would be financially devastating
to me.
So this has been a very good opportunity for me.
The timing of it worked out pretty good.
Both from having Wes to be able to join us full time,
to have Joe to be able to join us full time
and become even more integrated in our production pipeline,
which is bringing up our quality across the board.
World class editor, Joe Resington, everybody.
And to be able to reach out to the Ubuntu podcast
and say, hey, we'd like to do this for you
because we like you, and we think what you guys do
is important, and we want to help make it sustainable.
Having the ability to do that now
is the kind of thing that I've wanted to do for ages.
And I think it's what takes a Linux community podcast
to the next level, when you can start
to become an active participant in the community
and how you contribute.
So there's a lot of possibilities down the road.
It's early days.
We don't really have much more plans
to change things immediately other than adding user error.
And things that we have now are just
going to get better and have more focus and attention.
Yeah.
Yeah, and so with that, that is our opening to the show.
Anthony, is there anything else you think we should touch on?
You know, I don't think it is.
I just want to say it's great to have you all on.
And don't underplay your situation there.
Make sure you get some rest and take care of yourself.
Community needs you.
I know.
I will.
Amen.
Wes and Joe and Ange are going to have me covered
for the next few weeks while I recover.
I'll be on some shows as I can, because I love doing it.
But yeah, I'll definitely be tapping the brakes a bit more
and those kinds of things.
A little slower on social media, but I'll still
try to make my presence and try to respond to people as I can.
And we need to thank Wimpy as well for stepping in
for TechSnap.
That was very much appreciated.
Yeah, thank you, Wimpy.
It was a great episode.
My pleasure.
It was a lot of fun.
So with that all said, if you have questions about this
or concerns, let me know.
You can email me or you can tweet me.
And I will be collecting them and creating a FAQ at some point
and releasing that.
I want to give the other shows on the network a chance
to also collect the questions.
The shows remaining, the BSD Now guys and Ask No,
are all staying on the lineup.
And we're excited about that too, because I think
it's going to be better than ever.
We'll have more resources than ever.
And we don't really have, there's
no editorial influence in what we'll be doing there
or anything like that.
They're still their shows.
They own them and they get to produce them
and we'll still run them.
But they'll be ad-free now, because we
don't have to run ads anymore to sustain them.
So that's, I think, probably the biggest change there.
But if you have questions about any of this, email me, tweet me,
and I'll be creating a FAQ.
I'll also be listening from the guys on the other shows
and correlating all their questions too.
What do you think, Wes?
What do you think?
This is just so exciting.
You've said all that really could be said.
The thing for me is just that you care so much about this.
And this is just a move that means you and the rest of us
can spend more time focusing on it, doing it, having more time
to engage with the community and the audience,
and just spending all of our energies making this better.
I'm really excited to be working with you and Joe.
It's a great team we've got going here.
It's something like you have been doing in your spare time
for years now.
And Joe's been cramming it in as he could for a year, at least
with LAN Plus, a year plus.
And now it's a formal thing.
It's a real thing.
It's our job now.
And I think it's a great team, and it's
going to get even better.
So it's so wonderful for us because behind the scenes,
it's just super exciting.
And that energy just feeds into the show.
Yeah, so stick with us.
I mean, this is all very new.
We're not going to make a bunch of huge changes
right at the start.
But there's a lot building, and JB's not going anywhere.
It's going to be better than ever.
Mark's in the chat room from the Ubuntu Podcast.
Mark, go ahead.
Hey.
Yeah.
I mean, from our point of view, it's
really good to have Joe on board doing this.
It means that we can focus on the bit which we really
enjoy doing, which is being up once a fortnight
and having a chat about stuff, and not so much about all
of the other stuff we've got to do around it
to get the podcast out, which we try and automate
as much as possible.
But you can't automate Joe.
Yeah, yeah, that is well put.
Yeah, and that's exactly what we were thinking.
And make it sustainable that way, make it fun,
keep it going.
So I'm really glad that that worked out.
Yeah, so yeah, I'm elated.
And I also get to be a big boss now.
I'm a VP at Linux Academy.
And Anthony's going to have to put up with me
as part of his leadership team now.
And that's going to be wonderful.
Ha, ha, ha.
You're going to love it, Anthony.
Don't worry.
I'll just be ruffling feathers.
It sounds great.
Yeah, it sounds great.
Doesn't it sound great?
Well, thank you.
Thank you for coming on and chatting with us about it.
You know, the Mumble Room's always open
if you ever want to join us for a show and chat about stories
or anything like that.
And yeah, I mean, I guess if people are excited,
go check out.
I'm going to say this.
Nobody asked me to.
It's not an ad.
But if they don't have a heck of a sale right now over
at Linux Academy, if you're excited about this,
go to Linux Academy right now and sign up
because it's $299 for the year, which
makes it like less than $30 a month.
And correct me if I'm wrong, Anthony,
but if they get that price, it stays that.
Like, that's their membership price
as long as they are a member.
It doesn't like reset at the end of the year.
Yeah, and in fact, we actually have,
if you recall our pricing back in 2014
when we first started talking, we
have people who have never canceled their membership.
And the price has always been the same.
And we always like to reflect pricing for what's,
I think we had like 12 videos or something
back when we first talked.
So the pricing was a lot different back then.
They still have that same pricing regardless.
So if you have it, you get to keep it forever.
That's phenomenal.
As an individual.
So if you're pumped, if you're even half as pumped as we are,
this is a really great time to sign up with that $299 a year
because you can lock it in.
You don't have to think about it.
You just have access.
When you want to learn something, there you go.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, Anthony, I thank you very much for joining us.
And enjoy your evening down there.
Stay dry because I know the weather is
getting crazy down in Tejas.
Yeah, I appreciate it.
Welcome to all of you.
Really excited to have Joe and Wes and Angela and you
and everybody on the team.
And welcome to the community.
And again, thanks to the entire community
for your support on Linux Academy in the early days.
That really kind of helped us make it is what it is today.
And without the community, it never would have happened.
So I appreciate you letting me come on, Chris,
and join in on that announcement.
I know it's for you guys.
But I appreciate being able to come in and do that with you.
And I look forward to working with everybody
as we go forward.
Absolutely.
Yeah, thank you for making it.
And let's keep rolling into the show.
Oh, boy.
There's more show?
Yeah, there's more show.
Again, if you folks out there have questions,
send them in to me, chris at jupyterbroadcasting.com.
And I'll be collating a FAQ later on.
I don't know when.
Once we get enough questions in, I'll put that all together.
But let's talk about some things that I suspect
people may be interested in.
We'll just do a couple of stories.
And then that'll probably wrap us up,
just because I'm starting to hurt a little bit.
But NextCloud14 came out this week.
Oh.
NextCloud14 came out.
And everybody is probably kind of familiar with the whole
Dropbox situation.
So these announcements are even more attractive than ever.
A couple of features in here, though, that I think
are pretty fascinating.
They're doing something called video verification.
When I saw that title, I was like, what does that even mean?
It's not like Face ID.
It's just a way to identify the person you're
about to share a password with before you actually
send them the password.
Camera pops on.
Is this actually the right?
Is this Westpane that I'm about to send this password to?
Or is it somebody pretending to be Westpane?
Right.
I mean, so often you have to establish
some sort of side channel anyway to go communicate a password.
You don't often send it in the same medium
that you're discussing other things.
This just automates that.
Yeah.
So NextCloud14 is also bringing in two-factor authentication
support with a new gateway system that lets you use
SMS or Telegram or Signal.
Hey, I use those already.
That I love.
That is super, super great.
And then last but not least, there's
been some improvements for system administrators.
It's received a restructuring of app management
so you can update apps across multiple categories.
And the one feature they added that I think is pretty cool
is NextCloud now supports logging into the system d log.
And users are notified of major changes
with a pop-up first on login.
So like when you upgrade now, you get a pop-up saying,
here's what's changed.
Oh, hey, that's professional.
Yeah.
So there you go.
There you go.
A little news for you.
Of course, that's not all the news we have.
No, we also have some strange developments and also
really positive developments over at Solace.
A distribution that we used to follow quite closely,
but things have quieted down.
Yeah, it's been a while since we've talked about it here
on Unplugged.
Yeah.
And Josh over at Solace just recently
posted about supercharging some of the infrastructure.
And I have noticed a lot of package activity,
a lot of development happening over at Solace recently.
But when you read through the changes in the infrastructure,
it appears that the core team that remains, SANS IKEE,
was unable to maintain that infrastructure fully.
And they were unable to get communications with IKEE
to take control.
And it also sort of lined up with,
while IKEE I think was traveling,
and they say, because of the timing of these upgrades
and our lack of access to the solaceproject.com domain,
Brian and I are going to be shifting Solace services over
to a new getsol.us domain.
They're hoping it's a temporary measure,
but it's unfortunate the timing of this
is lined up with IKEE's move to England.
However, we take full responsibility
for not have prioritizing for several bus factor issues that
would have made this transition smoother.
So I'm assuming the transition is
that IKEE is no longer involved with the Solace project.
But was maintaining a lot of that core infrastructure.
There's not really clear communication here
if that's the case or not.
Right.
Obviously, there's problems of some level.
They don't have access now exactly why
and how much communication that we don't know.
It's very odd, and it really pisses me off
because it means Noah was right.
And I just hate that.
I just hate it when Noah's right, because he and I would
get into arguments.
And I'd say, no, Solace is different.
IKEE is a passionate visionary.
And he would say, it doesn't matter.
They're a small distribution, and they disappear,
and then you get screwed.
And I would argue back, but this time it's different.
This time it's different.
Look, he's gone full time now.
He's gone full time.
It's so different, Noah.
You're so wrong.
He was completely right.
Or, I mean, was he?
I mean, there's still, there is, it's getting supercharged now.
Yeah, I hope, maybe, maybe, you might be right.
Maybe there's a chance.
I wonder, though, I'd kind of like to open that up
to the mumble room.
What happens when the main visionary driver
behind a project fades away is, are the projects,
are they ever really the same?
I'm trying to think of some examples of like,
I'm trying to think of maybe some projects we'd
know of that had a.
Python's a recent example, but a little too new
to comment on how it goes.
But that same kind of vein, though.
You're on the right track there.
I mean, if you think about it, there's
a lot of projects that were started in the Linux world
that were, that the people who started it
are nowhere even near it.
Yeah, like some of, like, you mean
you're talking just like old, old projects that
have just been around forever?
Yeah.
And like the big, like a lot of the big ones,
like most of the big ones have, the people who started those
are nothing to do with it anymore.
OK.
A good example would be like Emacs.
Yeah.
GCC.
Or Gnome, or Debian, or KDE.
Ooh, Gnome, yeah, Gnome is a good one.
You're right.
What about things like Budgie, though?
Like Budgie seemed like it was, you know,
sort of an Aiki-specific creation.
Like, does Solus now continue their investment
in Budgie, which is based on some maybe older technologies
that were going to get replaced?
Solus and Budgie aren't the same thing, though, right?
Right.
But is there a default desktop environment?
Well, it is.
But it's a desktop environment.
There's nothing to say that Solus couldn't live on using
another desktop environment as its default.
Right.
That's what I was just speculating is maybe Plasma.
There's a lot of effort in the Gnome version of it.
Right, right, right.
That is true.
And Wes just did a little review of Gnome 3.3.0
on Linux Action News last week.
Sounds like you're running it right now, too, yeah?
Yes, I am.
Yeah, all right.
So maybe it's a, maybe it's a, right now,
we'll just call it a transition.
And it could be a good thing.
It could be a bad thing.
I mean, really, it seems like Josh and the folks
around the project are still working their butts off on it.
Like, I was just looking at some of the updates.
Like, they're still cranking.
It's a hard question to answer, right?
Like, I think you'd be hard pressed
to pick distros at random and see, well,
how real is that bus factor?
How much community support is there?
Or is this really the work of one or two people?
Yeah.
It's an interesting case study.
Yeah, yeah.
And I find, I find every time this happens,
you do have to take each incident
into its own, like, individual space.
Like, you can't immediately lump in, like,
past projects that have faded away and things like that.
But it's tempting.
I'm certainly tempted.
People said things about Solos changing things
and it was going to end badly and it didn't, so far.
And when they went rolling, it didn't, like,
they didn't really collapse or anything.
Right, right.
Yeah, there have been, yeah, the sky's falling calls before.
Joe, you've been awfully quiet on this topic.
You don't have thoughts on this?
I have a lot of thoughts on it,
but it's very awkward for me because obviously,
I worked with iKey for best part of a year
on late night Linux and had a lot of off-air conversations
with him and have a lot of insight into this,
but I don't know how much to share publicly.
I mean, it was quite clear that he wasn't that happy
with his life and he made some major changes.
He posted all over Google Plus about it.
You know, how he was getting a bike and getting fit
and losing weight and, you know,
paying attention to his appearance and everything.
And then suddenly, he says that he's going to move to England
and, you know, I think he'd said on air that moving
to England was not something that he wanted to do.
Even going there for things like Fostalk Live
and Oddcamp were just not on his agenda.
And then suddenly, he goes over there and then goes AWOL.
I mean, there's a post on the Solus forum,
someone asking, this is a couple of weeks ago, where's iKey?
You know, when he first moved over to England,
he posted about having the flu and, you know,
which is not surprising, you know, when you do,
he talked about driving for nearly 12 hours
or something from Ireland to England.
And if you do that without sleeping and stuff,
it's not a surprise going to somewhere new
that you're going to get something like flu
and be potentially laid up for a couple of weeks.
But then one of the devs replies saying that
he was struggling to get an internet connection.
Now, there are very few places where you can't get
at least some internet connection to at least
talk to the team and sort out this domain issue.
It's not a good sign when you have to change domain
for your project.
It means that whoever was controlling that domain
cannot be contacted or is hostile.
I don't think that he's hostile in any way.
I think it's just that he's disappeared.
His life priorities changed, shifted,
and clearly he's not involved with this project anymore.
You only have to look at the evidence.
If you look at the fabricator for Solace,
you look at the GitHub, you know, he hasn't committed,
you know, he's not pushed any commits for a long,
long time now since July.
And he's just not involved with the project anymore.
And it's a shame to me that Josh is running this thing
and not being straightforward about that.
I mean, if you read between the lines,
you can see that clearly Aiki isn't involved.
And I just don't understand why Josh
doesn't come out and say it.
I've messaged him about that.
And he just didn't reply to me.
And I can see why he would want to be a bit cagey
hoping that Aiki's coming back.
But at some point you just have to admit it
and say to your community, Aiki is gone
and we're plowing on without him.
I don't know that you can necessarily
draw that conclusion though.
I mean, from the outside, it's very easy to speculate,
you know, someone hasn't posted,
they've not done any development
and we've not heard from them for a while.
But yes, real life gets in the way,
whether it's, you know, children or changing country
or surgery or getting married or whatever it might be,
things get in the way.
And sometimes you want to go offline for a bit
and you want to do whatever you want to do
to get your life in order.
And that doesn't mean that he's gone.
It just means that he's not here.
Now we've had people in the Ubuntu community
who've disappeared, like properly disappeared.
And then they just pop up out of the woodwork
years later and say, hey, you remember me?
And everyone's like, yeah, welcome back,
come on back in and welcome them back.
You don't have to like have a funeral for them.
Right, okay, that is one thing to just disappear, right?
And some people do that.
And, you know, if Aiki had just disappeared,
but he is the lead, the founder of this project
who it seems controlled the main domain for them.
And we're not talking about just the website here
or the forums or the fabricator,
we're talking about the repos and everything.
Yeah, that's a mistake.
You know, something has gone badly wrong here.
Oh, yeah, I'm a glass half full kind of guy.
I think I see it both ways.
I think Poby's right.
You know, people need to human up sometimes.
I have changes I've got to make.
And, you know, I've got to deal with that.
And Aiki probably went through something similar.
At the same time, when you create something
like a semi-popular to popular Linux distribution desktop,
there is a responsibility to the end users as well.
Like there is a contract essentially there
that you're making when you're saying,
I'm making this product and it's like Josh writes
in the post, like if you don't plan for the bus factor,
then it's your responsibility to take care of it
and be at least communicative of like domain passwords
and things like that.
So I can see both sides of it.
I hope that the end result is the Solace project continues
and Aiki is able to make whatever changes he needs
to be happy.
That would really be the best case scenario.
And I think as someone who's enjoyed Solace,
I have nothing but support for the current team.
They're all good folks and they are all hard workers.
So hopefully it works out.
What do you think?
There's plenty to be hopeful for here.
And you're right, it is complicated, especially in this.
This is something we all worry about.
Maybe this can be a good example if you are out there
and looking to start your own distro
or working on your distro.
Bus factor is real.
And especially when you're volunteering your time
to a project that you just have, you know, just spare time,
anything can happen.
We've had a great number of examples.
Get that taken care of early, at least, you know,
if you have trusted people that you can share credentials
or set up a system to do that.
Wimpy and I, and I know you too, Wes,
but Wimpy and I have talked about it off air quite a bit,
is, you know, we're big fans of automating
as much as you can of processes like this.
So that way things are more push button,
they're not as manual and you can hand,
it's easy to hand off something like that.
Automation often forms a sort of documentation as well.
I'm always sort of impressed with the things
that Wimpy's automated.
You know, we've looked at, it's pod published, right?
Wimpy that you've tooled away at for a while.
Brilliant little system that maybe we can help with
someday, you know, and add things to it,
like chapter markers, chapters.
But yeah.
Yeah, that would be good.
Yeah, it would.
And I really think that's the way to do it, you know,
is try to build a system that you can hand off.
And I am learning that very hard this last week.
And it's an easy thing to say, right?
Of course, because we all know it,
we think in the back of our heads,
but you're busy and you're just trying to get
the next show done or whatever it is,
but it is a serious thing.
If you ever wind up in the hospital
and you're sitting there responding to work questions
in the hospital bed, it's not fun.
So in the case of pod publish,
my circumstances were fortunately much more luxurious
than yours, Chris.
I was away working and then away on holiday,
which meant that I wasn't involved
in the Ubuntu podcast for a month.
But because we've created pod publish
and that tool automates so much,
Popeye and Mark were able to publish those episodes
that I wasn't involved in,
because normally I do the publishing bit.
But because that tool is there
and it automates 99% of what you need to do,
it was trivial for them to just keep on running.
That's exactly it.
So that's really all I have planned for us today.
I wanted to have those conversations
and I wanted to share our big news.
I guess too, we could take a moment
if anyone in the Mumble Room has questions or thoughts
about the announcement of JB and Linux Academy joining up,
but also the audience is welcome to submit them via email.
Yeah, reach out to the host that you are curious about
or just the network in general.
Yeah, and I guess I'd leave too
with just maybe expect to see a little less of me
for a while, I'll still be around,
but I won't be as working as much
because I'm gonna have to take days off
and whatnot for recovery.
Quiet force in the background, keeping things going.
I only really got my voice back a couple of days ago
because they put a tube down my throat
to breathe me, you know?
And so I'm still, it's a little scratchy right now even.
So that probably means as the voice runs out,
it's time to wrap it up.
I know these episodes have been short recently
and I do apologize for that
because I don't intend them to be less than an hour,
but it is what we've been working with
because it turns out I had been broadcasting
for a few weeks in a pretty bad situation.
I didn't realize how bad my situation was.
And so I was just pushing through it,
thinking it'd get better and it didn't.
And so there you have it.
So they have been a little shorter, I apologize,
but we've packed so much into this episode
and we have so much in the works and so much planned
that trust us, that's just the beginning really.
And with all of that, I'll add,
go get more of Mark and Wimpy and Popey
over at the Ubuntu Podcast, ubuntupodcast.org,
and keep an eye out for User Air,
starring one Mr. Popey, Joe, Daniel Foray,
and your friends that'll be joining from time to time
on the User Air show.
It's error.show.
Error.show.
And error.show.rss for the feed.
And like Joe said, there should be a new episode on Friday
and it'll be kicking off from there.
Super excited about that.
It should be in all of the podcast directories
and whatnot already.
So go get subscribed.
Go get more Wes Payne at TechSnap.systems
where you can hear a recent special episode
with one Mr. Wimpy, which was fantastic.
So much fun.
The one thing that's been kind of neat for me
is I really enjoy you and Joe on LAN
and I really enjoyed you and Wimpy on TechSnap.
So I've been getting to listen to more shows.
I have, which has been useful
because I've had a lot more downtime recently.
Glad to help.
So it actually has been pretty neat for me,
but I've been getting a lot of notes
from people asking how I'm doing.
A lot of people assume I'm on vacation,
which is flattering.
Not the case.
We wish.
I do wish that.
But in the meantime, the shows will go on
and I will be back in full health in short.
And we have so much in the works.
I've never been this excited.
Stay tuned.
We've got a great team now, full-time team.
We're working for a company that knows content
who has developers and marketing
and like actual departments of people
and PMOs that can help us make project plans
and is behind us contributing to open source
and sending me to events and all of it.
It's just gonna be a huge, huge upgrade for us.
So we're very excited.
We'll be sharing more details
about the projects we plan to open source,
the licensing that we'll be choosing
and all of that in future episodes.
And I hope we'll see you right back here next Tuesday.
We'll be right back.
Chris, I think you should go for a sit down
and Eric, the IT guy should tell us all about
the Libre Application Summit.
Oh, you're right.
Oh, thank you for reminding me.
Oh, I got so, I got so distracted by all the news.
Eric, why don't we spend a little of the post-show
talking about the Libre Application Summit
and I will, I'll sit down and you can have the floor.
What do you say?
All right, sounds good.
I mean, I did unpack my entire Jeep just for you, Chris.
Well, you know what, the good thing is the post-show
people will be listening to because it's a short show.
So it's basically in the show.
How was it?
How was the whole thing?
I had an absolute blast.
I mean, there's about 60 unique people there.
We averaged about 40 a day.
The talks just got better and better every day.
I think in the long run, going to that conference
is going to cost me a ton of money.
I got to tour System 76.
I got to sit and talk with pretty much their entire staff.
And I really loved Craig and his vision for 76
and then also attended a talk from Purism about the Librem.
Kind of the short version of that was that
I feel like a phone, whether it was built for privacy
or just built to run Linux is something
that our community needs.
At this point, I'm probably going to pre-order it
just because I feel like that's something
that needs to happen.
It doesn't matter how hard or how long it takes
to get there, I feel like that's just something we need.
But as you hear a lot from people that go to conferences,
the best part was literally the hallway track.
It was, we had really long breaks
and people would pull out their laptops
and there's folks from Red Hat, namely the Flatpak Project.
In just about every talk, there was questions
from the Flatpak guys about how they're developing
applications and whether or not they could put that
into a Flatpak.
I mean, the only thing they didn't try to put into a Flatpak
was lunch.
It was a great conference.
One of the best things I think to come out of this
particular conference was that KDE sent a few people.
So it wasn't as Gnome-centric as the first iteration
of the conference and I think for next year,
there's going to be some rebranding
and some sharing of resources and personnel
so that next year, it's going to be more community-centric
as opposed to Gnome-centric.
So I know KDE's part of the reorganization plan
for next year.
They added a couple of people to the group, elementary.
Daniel and Cassidy were both there.
They are some amazing guys.
I had a lot of fun getting to know them
and talking to them and I think they both signed up
to be part of the Libre Application Summit Committee.
One of the things we're going to bring up
is a rebrand and a rename, mostly because it's really
confusing to people who are new to the community to,
well, is this Linux Action Show?
Is this like?
Yeah, I was going to say, not to mention the acronym.
Yeah, exactly, but so that's definitely
on the plan for next year.
We've got a bunch of folks from,
let me see who I can name off the top of my head,
from Spotify, from I think Nylas
or the company behind MailSpring
and I know a bunch of folks from Canonical want to come.
It just didn't work out timing-wise.
So I think next year, there'll be a slight shift
in when this conference happens.
That way more people can attend with expanding the,
by expanding the committee that's planning the conference,
we can get things planned and set up sooner.
That way next year we can get more attention
around this conference, we can get more people involved
and try and present desktop Linux as a unified front
instead of GNOME versus KDE versus LXDE.
And it sounds like those seeds were laid in this one.
So that's amazing.
Very much so.
And one of the, probably one of the best parts,
one of the coolest things I got to see
was there was, one of the days I was there,
I was supporting my Jupiter broadcasting shirts
and so some people recognized me
from being in the mumble room on this show,
but that's kind of a selfish take on that.
But the best part was some of them
were from the local colleges.
They heard about the Libre Application Summit
from the show and so they all pooled their money
and they bought tickets and they all carpooled out.
There was two different shows
that they were in two different colleges.
And they were some of the most involved
in the Q&A sessions.
They, a couple of them have a digital signage project
that they're working on and I'll try
and track that project down.
I know I put it in the Ask Noah show telegram,
but I'll track that project down.
It was a neat idea to use Python and Raspberry Pis
to have a central server that's sending out
all the content from PDFs to MPVs
out to Raspberry Pis across their campus.
I think it's just their campus lab right now,
but they've got some really cool ideas
to spread their project across all of their campus
and so they kind of announced that
and some folks took some interest.
And one of the schools, there was a couple of gentlemen
that will be joining the engagement team for GNOME.
So they're going to try and Sumner, thank you so much.
It's actually in the IRC.
It was the Colorado School of Mines called display
was the name of the application that they're working on.
And it was great to see college students getting involved
and asking, okay, so how can I help spread the word
around my campus and to my computer security club?
And so it was great to see folks getting involved.
And how much of it was technical then?
Like what was the balance between technical talks
and more kind of overview strategy stuff?
The talks themselves were about 70, 30.
A lot of it was pretty deep into the weeds.
So as just a dumb systems engineer,
I didn't quite understand all of it,
but there was one of the talks,
one gentleman from a company called Freehive
has actually made me think of Brent
because he is a graphic designer
who got tired of being held hostage by Adobe
and the creative suite and is rebranded,
rebranded his entire company and went open source
and said, it's a hard journey.
His company is called Freehive, F-R-E-E-H-I-V-E.
And he was a very dynamic speaker
and he really brought some interesting attention
to the developers and GNOME and KDE
about the problems that are out there
and some projects that could use some extra love.
And I love how the IRC is throwing links in there.
Thanks guys.
That way I don't have to.
Freehive.com.
Yeah, I see myself in that.
And we need more people doing that,
especially in the creative space.
So yeah, spread it around for sure.
You definitely should reach out to Ryan
the founder of Freehive.
He was really, really great and very, very open.
That's great.
I certainly will.
Thank you, thank you.
Yeah.
And in fact, that was one of the cool parts
about being there and knowing people from GNOME
and knowing people from elementary.
Just as a lot of you know,
I'm somewhat new to the open source community itself.
I've been involved in Linux for seven years.
I've been involved in running Linux on the desktop
for about two and a half.
But as far as the community goes,
it's really been in the last few months.
But within 15 minutes of the doors opening,
I was able to talk to someone
who was working on a way to monetize
open source applications.
And basically, I had just met Cassidy,
not 10 minutes before.
And so I was able to take this gentleman
and go talk to Cassidy
because they're doing that right now with elementary OS.
So it was great to just be there
and enable the community.
And I've never tweeted so much in my life.
Well, thank you for the summary.
That does sound like fascinating.
It sounds like it was a really good event for you to go to.
And so I'm really glad you could make it.
And how many people do you think
if you're gonna take a wild guess were in attendance?
I think we averaged about 40 people a day
with probably 60 to 70 unique people.
So there's some people that were only there for a day
or two days.
And then there's a few of us that were there every day.
It sounds really quite intimate actually as an experience.
I'm glad you went.
It really was an intimate is definitely the right word
to describe the technical exchange of ideas.
We'll be doing some minor edits to all the sessions
and those will be coming out over the next few weeks.
But the talks were really the sideshow.
It was the work that got done.
It was the exchanging of ideas.
It was the fact that Katie and Gnome,
people could see firsthand were not competing,
that they were just two groups of people
that both have a passion for desktop Linux
and that they're, I think in the months and years to come,
we're going to see more collaboration
between the two projects.
I know what you're saying when you say
you see the two projects working together.
It's like the turf wars of the internet
sort of just completely become irrelevant.
And it's just two people trying to solve a problem
working together in meat space.
That's the best spirit.
And we need both projects.
Because for me, I can only speak for myself,
but Plasma doesn't work well for my workflow.
It brings back too many bad memories
of all the years I ran Windows.
But when I moved over from Mac OS,
Gnome 3 just, it worked.
It fit right into my workflow.
So we need both projects.
So the only people that would lose on a turf war like that
is the entire community.
Presumably there was quite a lot of hype
about Gnome 3.30 then.
Pretty good timing with the release of that
just having happened.
Yeah, that was pretty convenient.
We had a release party and had cake
and went to a retro arcade bar.
So you could carry a drink around
and play Galaga and Pac-Man and some others.
But it was a really convenient timing.
And having played with 3.30,
I wish I could, I was planning on coming on today
and just being all excited,
and you've gotta try this out.
But as Wes kind of alluded to the other day,
it's just another good release.
There's a bunch of bug fixes.
There is a new podcast app,
which I'm looking forward to trying.
But it's a lot of good work.
It was hundreds of commits.
It was hundreds of people working on it.
And all in all, it's a great accomplishment.
I'm missing my Arch install right now
because I'm not running it on my main workstation.
So if you're running Fedora,
that should come out in Fedora 29,
which is slated for the end of next month.
So I'm debating putting my main system
onto the testing repos
just because I really wanna run it.
Thanks.
Yeah, I understand that drive.
That is the spot I've been in.
I have, as part of joining Linux Academy,
I have a work machine coming to me.
And Wes does as well.
And we got, is Poppy still here?
Yeah, Neon Poppy.
We got ThinkPads.
Indeed.
So very excited.
We have ThinkPads that are gonna,
they're actually being shipped to us.
So they'll be here probably in a week.
And I think I'm gonna put Neon on it.
Oh, Neon.
Okay, yeah.
That makes sense.
I should do Kubuntu because we're doing Kubuntu
on all of the production systems.
But I'd love an 1804 base.
And I'd love the fresh plasma.
And so I was kind of gonna ask you,
like how is, what do I, is there an ISO?
Can I just go right to the 1804 version of Neon
when that machine arrives?
Like all my Neon boxes are still 1604 based.
The Neon 1804 is a preview version.
So it's still in like, it's in beta now.
So it's close to being released,
but there's still at least a couple of weeks or so.
Do you think it's safe?
I mean, do you think it's,
I feel like it's probably gotta be getting there, right?
Well, the problem is that there's going to be bugs
until they finish the migration between 1604 and 1804.
So they don't really know.
I would, it depends on what you're doing it for.
Just really want fresh plasma.
If it's not for the potential of, you know,
catastrophic if you lose some stuff,
then I would, you know, it's fine.
Yeah, I don't think it'd be catastrophic.
Yeah, if you're not storing everything,
cause if you're doing stuff on the production machines
or on the stable release of a Kubuntu,
you should be fine if you're, if you like,
if you don't store a bunch of stuff on there.
I don't think it would break things,
but there's some times where I had Kwin crash a few times
and there's a couple of times where I had Kwin
just pretty much just obliterate itself
and not think it existed
so that system wouldn't even boot.
Like I can get in TTY, but that was about it.
We had that same problem in the studio happened once.
Now, so I'm thinking like in a month though,
the laptop is going to maybe,
well, I guess actually more than a couple of months.
I'm sort of, I'm sort of grounded for a few months,
but eventually it'll be in my travel broadcast machine.
So I do want it to be pretty rock solid,
but I probably have a few months before it's necessary.
So you need a rock solid distro on that laptop, right?
And you're thinking about possibly Neon or maybe Kubuntu.
Well, Chris, come on.
There's only one distro that you could put on that, Solus.